Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform
from hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
our weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number 515. In this episode,
Scott explores the creative process
with comic creator and musician
fr Richardson. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hanselminutes today. I
have the pleasure of talking
with a fuller Richardson. She's
a comic artist and a
musician and many, many, many
creative things. I'm so happy
to be chatting with you
today. Thanks for having me.
I first learned about you
when I was recommended that
I buy a copy of
genius, which is one of
your books that was done.
I think through top cow
comics. Absolutely. Yes, it's a,
a six issue mini series
written by Mark Bernard and Adam Freeman
about a 17 year old
tactical genius. That's born in
South central Los Angeles, Tactical
genius. So she's a, she's
like a savant. She is
beyond our abilities. She's a
war strategist basically. And living
in South central in one
of the most dangerous parts
of the United States, it's almost
impractical. Like what application would
someone have, maybe a Hannibal,
someone who's born into a
war or a, a conquering
civilization would have an application
for that, but she sees
the possibilities. She sees the
probability and in growing up
in a, in an area
like I grew up in
Harlem, so I could relate
to the character. And my
dad's a physicist. When you
grow up in the hood,
it's almost a, what's the
word. It doesn't pay to
be smart. Basically. It's looked,
it looks, it's looked down
upon, It's an anachronism. It's
just like, wait a second.
You're not supposed to, that's
not, that's not the role
that we all assign. Well,
and it's not even something
that's externally happening from someplace
else. It's sort of within
the community itself. If I
speak properly, then I'm trying
to speak like a white
girl. I'm like, I'm not
trying to speak like anything.
This is just how I
speak. But if, if you're
a kid and you're growing
up like this, it's almost
it's looked at as if
you're doing it to slight
them. So she, the character
hid her intelligence. She would
intentionally Mark her papers wrong
because being smart, just didn't
pay. You get beat up.
You get made fun of
and standing out in a
situation where there are a
lot of broken homes, broken
families, broken philosophies means you're,
you'll be targeted and it's
not worth it. And she,
she uses this strategy first
behind the scenes. And then
in the front of the
scenes, when people start to
realize that there's a new
player in town and starts
moving chess pieces around, Absolutely.
She goes through a couple
of transformation, sorry for spoilers.
But she, she starts to
see that everyone's kind of
being engineered on the police
side. They're sort of being
used, you know, good one
men and women being used
as dogs of the state
to socially engineer people into
being cannon fodder for a
prison industrial complex. So people
are being pitted against each
other and they just end
up in jail. And that
generates money for the state
average of like 27,000 per
prisoner. And instead of coming
together, you know, they're, they're
at each other's throats. So
they're, they're doing the job
and they're just doing someone
else's job they're exterminating themselves.
So she starts organizing them,
removing leaders and starts taking
over square blocks of Los
Angeles. And at the same
time, sending in videos to
the local media, who we
presume are, are free and
open thinkers. And they, they
start to debate back and
forth like, okay, well, here
are these corrupt police officers
who are selling drugs to
quote unquote undesirable neighborhoods and
destroying the people. No one's
forcing them to take this,
but if they're in a
really bad dire situation, they
just want to forget here.
You know, there's some heroin,
that'll destroy your chemicals. And
so people are preying on
each other. And so she's
starting to realize that pattern
and puts it on its
head and says, Hey, you
know, let's stop fighting each
other. Let's start taking back
these neighborhoods. And so she
starts, you know, this war
campaign taking over square blocks,
setting up traps. And it
was weird because I started
seeing things like that happen
in real life. There were
six police officers who were
tried and arrested and tried
for trafficking drugs and different.
And it was weird because
the lineup looks like the
character that I drew was
kind of eerie. And also
the bloods and Crips, which
were these gangs. And I
don't know where they necessarily
originated or if they were
engineered or, or what, but
they started coming together territory
wise because, you know, people
think, Oh, it's the bloods.
And the Crips that are,
that are really at each
other's throats. And there's so
many other gangs and things
like that. People just trying
to form their own families
and communities in ways to
organize themselves. But the violence
where, you know, we don't
know where it starts, why
it starts in white keeps
perpetuating. So she's just like,
yeah, I'm putting the kabash
on that. And all the
wild She's doing this, she's
a teenager, she's a petite
young black woman, not who
you would expect to be
listed along with Alexander, the
great Caesar Hannibal, you know,
like why shouldn't one of
the great military strategists in
history, just pop up and
be born in an environment
we don't expect. Absolutely. It,
it, it happens all the
time. And how often is
that capability squashed? You know,
not that I think it
would be great for people
to stop. Yeah. That, you
know, it's not always just
old white dudes in Carthage
that, that pop up. Right.
Right. I mean, I mean,
you, you, you kind of
see it throughout history, even
in a, I sort of
hate to go only towards
ancient Egypt because that sort
of erases any of the
advancements that, you know, the
entire continent of Africa has
accomplished in, you know, 5,000
years, but the first female
Pharaoh shit, I think that's
how you pronounce her name.
She, when her husband died,
she took over as Pharaoh
and she started implementing changes.
She allowed women to represent
themselves in court and they
could own property. And after
she died, that was the
end of that. They buried
her in any legacy of
her at all, but it
absolutely existed. I don't think
it's a big grand experience,
a conspiracy to suppress that.
But I think a lot
of times the mental barriers
stop people from having the
psychological permission to see themselves
as certain archetypes. So they
just sort of fall into
where they think they can
succeed. Yeah. And half shit
suit was actually one of
the most successful pharaohs considered
one of the most successful
ferals. And I think she
ended up living into her
fifties, which is quite significant
given the time she was
long lived for the time
and very, very successful in
one of the most successful
women of the early, you
know, 1500 BC timeframe. Right.
So backing up a little
bit, this is some pretty
heavy stuff. People who are
listening might be saying, wait
a second. I thought this
was a comic artist that
we've got here. Why do
you think that people don't
realize that really complicated themes
can be talked about in
the context of comics? I
think the, the way comics
are approached is it's thought
of as a child medium,
where they're superheroes, tights, superpowers,
and very juvenile and kind
of immature concepts that very
complicated things can't be expressed
through these new they're, they're
basically new gods. They're the
new, like Superman is his
Horace is Jesus. He's Neo,
you know, you see the
same sort of representations, the
same archetypes over and over
again. But I think in
America, it's viewed as you
know, no one's taking that
seriously. I did an interview
with someone on the radio.
They're like, no, one's really
taking comic books seriously. And
I was like, Oh, have
you paid attention to any
of the films? The movie
that has been successful in
the last five years has
been about like, we clearly
are interested in these new
gods. Absolutely. Because they remind
us about things in ourselves.
We can see ourselves within
them. It's sort of this
heroic morale that people have
without having to subscribe to
a, a binding religion or
state delved out philosophy. That's
right. Really, that's a really
significant point that, that should,
we should just kind of
double click on, for lack
of another word for just
a moment, because it's, it's
clear like in the upcoming
Batman versus Superman situation, that
there's religious undertones in everything
there, but you don't have
to ascribe to a religion
nor do you have to
feel that you're there. This
is not an a frontier
religion. Yeah, exactly. People can
believe whatever they want to.
I feel like religion is
an interface for people to
interpret reality. And I don't
presume to know anything with
certainty. There's things that are
accepted as fact change with
technology all the time. I
think that a lot of
the early religions and things
of course were changed over
the time by Tyra to
wanted to users' these principles.
But I think fundamentally people
needed metaphors in order to
retain the information. You might
not remember that on December 31st,
the constellation, Oh, Ryan is
followed by Virgo. And then
from that point onward after
the winter solstice, the, the
arc of the sun across
the sky gets longer. But
you might remember that three
wise men, which is like
the belt of Orion followed
the Virgin, you know, follow
the, and they found the
Virgin. And then the son
was born like literally the
constellation Virgo comes up over
the horizon and then the
sun starts to get longer.
You know, it starts to
get longer, but it stays
longer in the sky. So
the sun is born, it's
reborn. And that can be
represented in so many ways.
And it's not to discredit
anyone's religion, but you know,
you have to kind of
look through time and see
where many of these things
were rewritten and changed and
manipulated to fit a particular
rulers idea. Right. It reminds
me of Joseph Campbell on the
power of myth and the
idea of the hero's journey.
And, you know, Luke Skywalker
is Jason and the Argonauts.
You know what I mean?
Like the story I was
in times before, I mean,
there were only so many
stories, Right? I mean, look
at Superman grant Morrison talks
about it in super gods.
And I have to finish
reading that book. So many
comics to draw, but it's,
you know, it's a really
great book where he starts
making the comparison between, you
know, Batman and Haiti's, he's
the guardian of the underworld.
And it's kind of like
Pluto. Pluto is the planet.
That's furthest out. It's near
the, the, the Oort cloud,
I believe is that, that
word cloud or the Chi
for disk, I think it's
your cloud, your cloud. So
he's sort of guardian of
all of these frozen stationary,
dead bodies that you have
to kind of cross a
sea to get to. And
Batman is kind of, he
is in the underworld, but
he's, he doesn't kill any
of them. He just sort
of keeps them at Bay.
And Jupiter is like Zeus,
hurling the Thunderbolt because when
objects from the work cloud
come in, it's, it's, Jupiter's
gravity that determines whether or
not it goes towards the
sun or away from the
sun. So it's, it's the
same personifications of, of natural
events that get repeated and
you see it in comic
books. And that's why it
resonates so much of the
speaking of Luke Skywalker. My,
my mom was Buddhist and
she would take us to
a Buddhist temple when I
lived in New York. And I
saw Mark Hamill at the
very front, we would, we
would pray. And we pray
to this sort of scroll
thing. And we repeat these
sutras and I didn't know
what I'm saying. It was
in Japanese, you know, so
sitting there chanting, like, alright,
I'm seeing something. And I
see Mark Hamill in the
front. I started, I pull
my mom's sleeve. I'm like,
mom, I thought, look, sky
welcome. I said, she's just
like, it's okay. Like he
can be both. And I'm
like, Oh, Oh, okay. He
could be both, you know,
Buddhist and they can share
philosophy. I was like, okay.
It is nice to remember
That we can share philosophies.
That's totally okay to do.
We can, like, it doesn't
have to be so finite.
Cause you know, we don't
know, but we can try.
I was telling someone recently
that I, I tend to
watch a lot of TV.
I watch, I unapologetically watch
a lot of TV because
I'm convinced that we are
in the golden age of
television. Like, you know, where,
like, you know, if you
ever meet someone that maybe
hasn't seen the wire or
they haven't seen breaking bad.
Right. And you just want
to like stop the conversation
and just like slap them
across the face and just
say, what are you doing
here? Why are you even
talking to me? You should
be home watching, breaking bad.
I feel the same way
about comics right now. Like,
I feel like there's this
resurgence, you know, and there's
just so much great comics
going on, like ms. Marvel
and just on and on
and on. Do you think
that we are like, is
this the new golden age?
Is this a new, is
there a moment that's happening
here? I think people are
coming to the actualization that
different kinds of stories have
been told in comics and
that there's a market for
it. And so with that
understanding, and also with the,
with Joe Casada is selling
the rights to the making
of the Marvel movies that
has opened up a huge
Avenue. So people are seeing
comics. Comics are basically now
the new I want to
direct because they see the
audience that, that the diehard
fans that will go out
and support a title that
will support a character. Because
you know, it's a piece
of them. It's a piece
of themselves. And now that
people are understanding, okay, we
don't have to sell to
just this particular demographic. We
can make things for different
kinds of people with different
philosophies, different ideas, not even
just different nationalities or different
ages, but you can make
a horror comics. You can
make, you know, just superhero
comics, superior comics are great.
We know them. We love
them. We can reproduce them.
We can make action drama.
And that is sort of
a pre storyboard and a
test market for a film
and people without having that
understanding, you know, they, they
assume it's a fast track,
but it's a lot of
work. Hey folks, I wanted
to take a moment to
tell you about Reagan and
their new product called pulse.
Reagan is an error and
crash reporting software provider and
their new product pulse to
realtime user monitoring product. It
gives you performance data and
user insights. Lets you understand
exactly what's happening when users
interact with your software. So
you're never left. Guessing. Reagan
provides you with the answers
to your performance questions and
they've found over 10 billion that's
billion with a B bugs
and customer apps with their
crash reporting product. And now
Reagan will help you application
quality. Like no one else.
Over 30,000 developers worldwide, can't
be wrong. I use Reagan
and all the time and
I enjoy it very much.
You can try it out
today with a no risk
30 day free trial start
improving your software quality immediately
try Reagan for free today@reagan.io.
Let me, Let me dig
into this a little bit.
If you don't mind. And
I hope this isn't too
personal because I feel like
Like the movies that are
making like a billion dollars,
you know, You mean like
Avengers, like a billions, one
of those words you'd have
to hit the B and
just like let it hang.
Right? Right. But billion dollar.
Well, when I I'm going
to go to a wizard
world in a couple of
weeks and I feel like
I'm still seeing comic artists
that are just talented beyond
belief. He's sitting at a
picnic table selling their art
and I get the impression
that they don't have awesome
health care and they're not
living in mansions, but they
are the creators of my
heroes is the, the movie
movie's, co-opting almost, maybe co-opting
isn't the right word, but
making billion dollar movies about
our heroes, is it leaving?
I don't know people like
you behind. How do you
get some of that billion?
Well, it, it depends on
the ownership. If you think
you can redraft Superman's costume
and then make a bunch
of money off of it,
that's not necessarily how this
goes. And these properties are,
if they've been around since
world war II, the way
they, an artist can make
a billion dollars is if
they own the intellectual property.
Right. You know, and a
lot of times, you know,
people can get screwed if
they don't have the right
representation, if they don't know
what they're signing over. You
know? So having that understanding
is important. The artists are
many artists are freelance, so
they're work for hire. There's
no W2, there's no taxes
taken out. There are no
health benefits. You have to
kind of create that on
your own. And so it's
kind of a long and
grueling process initially, where you
have to hone your craft,
then make a name for
yourself, then work on properties
to show that you actually
can hit a deadline and
make something that's that sellable
and people want. Then you
have to maybe, maybe, you
know, some people get away
with it, not be a
douchebag. And it's sort of
like one out of three
things, you know, they like
you you're, you send in
work on time and you
know, you do good work
is a two out of
those three seem to work,
but people get left behind
when they don't know the
business and they don't know
the business of what they're
doing and I'm still learning.
There's still lots of things
for me to learn. But
with genius, that was a
word for hire. After I
completed that and I got
paid for my Patriot, you
know, it's being sold in
Barnes noble. And I don't
see any of that because
I'm not, even though I
created the characters and the
aesthetic and you know, made
a few changes here and
there, it's not my concept
and it's not my story.
So after I'm paid for
that job, that's it. They
own it. They can do
what they want with it.
If they would like to
include me in the making
of the film, that would
be fantastic. But I'm not
entitled to any of that
because a that's that wasn't
written to my original contract
and be like I said,
not the IP owner. So
people think that because these
properties make millions of dollars,
that comic artists are rich
more often than not. If
they don't turn in work
that is accrued, they don't
get paid. Does that underscore
the importance of what is
also a bit of the
rise of the, of the,
the comic artist owned intellectual
property? Like these, these not
the big Marvel DC, but
like, you know, you know,
Kirkman and then these different
folks that are saying like
artists should own their own
stuff. Like, is that going
to change or are we
splitting where there's going to
be two kinds of comics,
the big corporate comics and
then the little people and
nothing in between? Well, I
think, I think with books
like saga, that's changing, you
know, there are people who
are moving outside of, of
Marvel and DC and they
have great properties and great
stories and they can afford
to hire the best of
the best and have that
team together and make an
amazing book. But indie artists
are finding a way to
go directly to their audience
and say, okay, this is
what I have in mind,
in order for me to
live in the meantime of
making this book, you know,
I could really use your
support. And now with things
like Kickstarter and, and different
social media platforms, people can
decide, okay, you know what?
I want to see that
happen. I want to see
that come into a reality.
So I'm going to support
this directly, whereas maybe 10,
20, 30 years ago, that
wasn't a reality and that
wasn't even, that wasn't even
possible. You couldn't have that
sort of platform or access
to the public in general.
And both of those things
can coexist. I think, you
know, there, I think there
will always be a place
for the marbles and DCS,
but I think different kinds
of stories can be told
by different kinds of people
that I think companies like
Marvel can't necessarily facilitate because
of the amount of initial
investment. So with, for example,
a book like X-Men, you
have to consider average 20,
you know, 20 to 30
pages, right? The penciler inker
and colorist three different jobs
on average, you know, a
hundred to $200, $500, $600
a page. You know, every,
everything varies according to level
of experience. So you're looking
at, you know, 10, 20,000,
$50,000 for the production of
one book. Wow, you've got
to get that return on
investment. That means that they
can't make that kind of
investment on a smaller book
and then get a return.
If it's something that is
a little bit more nuance
and niche, but someone putting
in an initial investment of
$5,000 and getting a return
of 10 or 20, that's
something that an indie artist
can can benefit from. And
also when you think about
it, DC has vertigo and
that's their Avenue to tell
their independent stories. Marvel doesn't
currently have that, you know,
so they're using, when they
put in new characters, they're
inserting them into their universe.
Interesting. Yeah, you're right. That
isn't, that is the model
that most even movie theaters,
I mean, with moving with
the shimmy production houses, right.
They'll have like the big,
you know, new age cinema,
which is like, you know,
the, the, the arm of
a larger of a larger
organization. So you described three
different jobs there penciler inker
and colorist. Those are the
jobs that I think of
historically. I remember when I
was probably 20 years ago
buying, you know, the become
a comic artist kits with
a giant pages, you know,
and you learn all about
those individual jobs. And we
were always taught that they
were separate. But now with
the advent of digital, you
are all three of those
things, aren't you? Yes. I'm
working on a Marvel book
right now, and this is
the first time I'll be
doing just pencils and inks
because it does take a
lot of time. And I'm
trying to use new programs
because historically I've used Adobe
illustrator, which if anyone's used
illustrator, it's more of a
graphic design program. Cause that's
kind of how I started
out as a graphic designer
and just someone who loved
comics and taught themselves how
to draw in these programs.
But I, I guess now
if you can draw by
hand and digitally, you do
have an advantage, honestly, with
these different types of programs,
vector programs, mango studio, illustrators,
sketchbook, pro people are drawing
on their tablets. Now you
can sort of circumvent those
things, but they're not obsolete.
There are some people who
are just anchors and they're
really, really good at that.
And that's still necessary for
those who are just penciling.
But if you can do
all three, you could probably
get through a book a
little bit faster and you
know, for a company, if
they can hit their Mark,
then you can pay them
for all three jobs. Oh,
okay. So being all three
of those, isn't necessarily an
opportunity for someone to get
ripped off. Like you're not
going to say I'm going
to get paid twice as
much, rather than three times
as much, even though I'm
doing three times the work,
Sometimes it ends up happening
that way where like, Oh,
you're doing all of those.
Okay, well we'll give you
this much per page. Wait,
that doesn't, that doesn't add
up to very much at
all. Okay. It's so interesting
though, that from the outside,
looking in that you keep
saying per page per page
and that's that's so turn
the crank. You know what
I mean? It's almost like
me being paid per lines
of code, as opposed to
per program that I write,
you know, like there's the
end, the end product. It
may be 10 lines of
code, maybe a thousand, but
the end product is know,
like you might look at
someone else's art and that
might, you might find in
just chatting with them that,
Oh wow. It takes you
like 14 hours a page.
Oh, I bang out a
page in nine hours or
whatever. Right. You know, and
we have this myth within
programming of the, the 10
X programmer. The idea of
like, you know, there are
certain kinds of programmers that
are 10 times more productive
than others. And we don't
know until, you know, it's
a myth, you know, I
assume that you might have
the same myth with a
comic artists where there's certain
people that produce at a
level that you can't even
understand how they're pulling it
off. Yeah. There's some people
who create a lot faster
than others. I want to
get faster just for my
own edification. So especially being
self-taught, there are a lot
of things I had to
kind of learn the hard
way. Oh yeah. It's like
I traditionally started off as
a cover artist because I'm
being a singer and a
voice actor. I would perform
at different places and I
would make my own flyers.
And then I started doing
album covers because out of
a circle of many musicians,
I would be the only
artist that they knew personally.
So they were like, Hey,
you know, I have 600
bucks. Can you just make
an album cover for me?
And I'm like, I can
do that. All right, sure.
But it's, you can't treat
individual panels of a page,
which are just showing moments,
but you're showing like the
apex of a moment, moving
the story along like a
cover. You can't, you can't
cram all that information into
a single frame. And if
you try to do so
you'll take home day because
the information doesn't translate quite
as well. It's smaller. There's,
there's less detailed if you
put too much detail into
it, the I's not going
to know where to go.
The, if you can, if
you think of detail like
information and it's information to
be read, the eye will
travel across the page in
the direction of dark and
like blacks, darks and detail.
So how you communicate that
on a print page, moves
the person along in the
story. Okay. So it's, It's
the, you know how, when
you're watching a movie and
they'll cut to someone and
they're looking in one direction
and then they'll cut to
the other person, they're looking
at their direction. Like that's
the kind of stuff that
director is thinking about. Whereas
if both people were looking
to the right, even though
they're supposed to be talking
to each other, because if
that's how they set the
cameras up, it would, you
wouldn't know what was wrong,
but you would know something
was wrong. Your brain would
say, what's going on, you'll
be incorrectly oriented in your
brain. So you're thinking about
that flow as you move
through the Absolutely. And also,
you know, you have to
kind of think of the,
not just the cinematography of
the individual panels as it
is relaying information, but the
flow of where things are
positioned and how it leads
people across the page. So
you're, you're thinking about you
kind of a director in
that sense, when you're a
comic artist, you can set
up the information and each
panel tells a piece of
the story and moves it
along. And for individual core
indie creators, if you're putting
something in a story and
it doesn't either reveal something
about the character or give
more information, you might want
to consider cutting it. So
that's sort of the helpful
part, a, of an editor.
They will tell you when
you've got too much going
on, You mentioned that you
did voiceover work. You're also
a singer, you're a songwriter,
you're an accomplished flutist. You
know, there's only so many
hours in the day I
forfeited my social life. Should
you? I mean, I don't,
I don't, I don't imagine,
like after a day of
writing comics and drawing and
doing all this work and
then you're like, Oh, I
think I'll, I'll go to
the local club and then
I will join my band.
I mean, how do you
have the energy to do
all those kinds of things?
Do you ever feel the
need to pick? I do
sometimes. And when I do,
I get fundamentally sick, really?
I do, I do something
in me. Just kind of
goes a little sour if
I'm not doing one of
those things. Now, granted comics
takes a lot more time
and because I'm a self-taught
artist, I have to spend
more time to focus on
it. And as a musician,
you know, I've been playing
the flute since I was
nine, I performed on a
bunch of different stages. I
got to tour with some
amazing folks. And I sort
of taught myself how to
sing after doing a lot
of like reading a lot
of sheet music and things
like that. I beat boxed
for awhile. Just kind of
weird. I was with a
lot of like female underground
hip hop crews where they
were like, breakdancers beatbox, Oh,
I was the only beatbox
artist, but they were MCs
and so on. And so
I was their resident beatbox
artist for this group called
the anomalies. And I started
mimicking SIM singers as just
another sound. You know, I
do like animal noises and
beats and things like that.
And I would, you know,
like once upon a time,
there's a story out of
time, you know, like I,
I kind of mimic jazz
singers and mimic these different
things until I eventually became
one. And I think sometime
when I was 16 or
17, my, you know, my
folks were having a hard
time and they just kind
of went in two different
directions and I was sort
of on my own. And
so I had to take
on a lot of odd
jobs and I was performing
a couple of times a
week. So it was, it
was more out of necessity,
like, all right, I need
to know how to do
this. I would play my
flute and in different bands
and sing background and eventually
went on tour. But I
had office jobs that had
computers. So I taught myself
Photoshop. It seems like if
I may, that there's a
thematically through your, through your
career, through your work for
your life. You're putting on
different masks. That's very true
All in the process of
not hiding, but to figure
out, figure out who you
are, but it must be
both very frustrating. Cause you
have all these masks to
pick from while some people
may just have one, but
also it must also be
very, very empowering to feel
that when you're tired of
one, you can switch to
another. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. I'm
in a band called waking
astronomer and I'm the singer
and flute player and I
beat box in the band
and it's been really great
because, you know, they're weirdos
like me and I can
sort of be myself, you
know, as a, as a
singer, you know, I thought
I had to go through
the channels of, okay. Yeah.
I, I write some songs
to get a record contract.
I go on tour and
that's how you become a
successful singer. But when I
started navigating through the industry,
you know, of course I
was immature and I wasn't
really ready. But what I
noticed was that it was
more of an assembly line
is a little bit more
about, okay, can you, can
you make a hit song?
Okay. Pretend to be this
other person being an MC
I wanted, I was a
really big, I was really
big into rock. Like I
love stone, temple pilots. Like
that was, that was my
everything and red hot chili
peppers. And so I wanted
to do rock and I
came from a jazz and
classical background. So I could
appreciate a lot of different
kinds of music and, you
know, excuse me, English when
I say this, but I
literally had someone telling me
like, yeah, well you could
do all the white devil
shit. You do. You got
to like, get some street
cred first. And I was
like, what? Okay. I just
want to make some music
that I want to make.
Right. And I decided, well,
you know, if I am
going to do music, I'll
just do it on my
terms. And so I kind
of figured, well, you know,
maybe that just, maybe that
just won't happen with Arrieta.
I can tell the stories
that I want to tell,
and I can express myself
that way. When I was
a kid, I wasn't very
talkative. And I felt like
I almost couldn't trust my
own thoughts and my own
words, but playing the flute
so young, that was that
that enabled me to have
a voice that couldn't be
questioned other than the technique,
you know, it's like, okay,
you know, I can trust
this because this is in
tune. This is in tune.
And this is correct. You
know, the intonation is correct.
I'm expressing this the way
I want to, I think
hit the notes and I've
practiced this and no one
can take this from me.
No one can, you know
that you can critique it,
but you can come take
my technique. Not who I
am. Right. It's a true
meritocracy. Yeah, absolutely. And that
was really important for me.
That was really vital for
me because I didn't, I
did not have a very
healthy self esteem. It there's,
a lot of things happened
in my life and it
made me feel like, well,
why did this happen to
me? You know, maybe I
don't deserve to be happy.
And it just, all these
things that the person tells
themselves to try and rationalize
tragedy. And you w when
you can make art and
change your mind and inspire
someone else, you want to
make it to the best
of your ability. And so
I just, I just kept
pushing. And I, even though
people told me it was
a waste of time, you
know, don't do this, get
a real job. You're going
to be homeless maybe for
the rest of your life.
Or there's so many, so
many fears that people projected
onto me. Like, you know,
you're, you're never gonna make
it. You're too old to
do this. And even though
it's hard, life is hard.
Life is difficult. Surviving is
difficult. We might as well
do something that we enjoy
that at the end of
it, after it's finished, you
can look back and say,
you know what? I made
this, I made this and
it's there and it's not
perfect, but who cares? I
finished it. I accomplished it.
It's published. And maybe someone
else will appreciate it because
when I would listen to
music, sometimes my head would
be so cloudy. And then
when I would hear the
construction of the songs and
their cores and their progressions,
I was like, you know
what? This person they're going
through something they're struggling. They're
doing whatever they're doing in
their life, but they were
able to make this. And
this is beautiful. So I
want this and I want
this for somebody else. And
I want them to know
that, you know, I'm not,
I'm not a superhero. I'm
not special, but I'm too
stubborn to quit. I'm too
stubborn to cave in because
we've got this one life
we might come back. We
don't know. We don't have
any memory of what we
were before. Be it dirt,
be it either another person,
but we have this experience
and we're always waiting, Rose,
waiting until we're ready. We're
waiting until the right moment.
And those moments pass. And
I, you know, I want
people to be able to
embrace the things that they
want to make with their
lives now, and to try
it. And you know, everybody's
not going to ever a
million people want to dress
vitamin. They're not going to
be able to trust vitamin.
They're not going to have
the opportunity to dress by
grant. I'm not saying that,
you know, if you think
it it's possible, but at
the same time it is,
you are. I never thought,
you know, sleeping on a
subway. I would have the
opportunity to draw for a
living. And I just thought
that just didn't happen for
someone like me. And that's
not necessarily to say, you
know, you know, as a
black woman, because I get,
I get that a lot.
It's like, how does it
feel to be a black
woman in a white male
dominated industry? And I was
like, it's fine. I don't
make it an issue. I
make my work speak for
me. If I want to
see something, if I feel
like there aren't enough people
of this particular type of
culture being represented, I'm not
going to look to someone
else to make it. That's
my job. That's, that's an
opportunity. And I think with
comics lately, there've been a
lot of people complaining, but
not enough people supporting or
people trying it themselves, or
doing the research to understand
what really goes into it.
And it takes a lot
of heart and a lot
of effort. And I put
my everything into my artwork
and because it's me on
a page, Well, people can
check you out on aPage@afuorrichardson.info.
So you've got your music
up there. You've got advanced
as you go to conventions,
there's the food store you
can check out and you
can also check out your
new album, correct? Yes. As
self-titled EAP eight songs, it's
a available for streaming on
OK. Player right now it's
called waking astronomer. But yeah,
you can visit a full
richardson.com or follow me on
Twitter. Tumblr. I have a
group on Facebook called dr.
Foos lab. I got that
nickname from Brandon Graham. Who's a
really, really great comics, creator.
He long story. But anyway,
yeah, it's sort of an
art community because that that's
something that I know I
wouldn't have survived without having
a community of people who
can give me feedback and
encourage me, but also let
me know when I'm lacking.
It's kind of like a
dojo and it's a really
great art family there. So
anyone who's an aspiring artist
or professional come on down.
Well, thanks so much for
spending time with me today.
Yeah. Thanks for having me.
Thanks for listening everybody. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week.